Add new backup strategy doc (#8078)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/backup/02-01-new-backup-strategy.md

---
title: Kyma Backup Strategy
type: Architecture
---

> User load on a Kyma cluster typically consists of various Kubernetes objects and volumes. Kyma relies on the backing cloud provider for periodic backups of the Kubernetes objects. That's why it does not require the user to do any manual settings to take backups.

Author: I meant the cloud provider Kyma runs on (azure, gcp, etc.).

> User load on a Kyma cluster typically consists of various Kubernetes objects and volumes. Kyma relies on the backing cloud provider for periodic backups of the Kubernetes objects. That's why it does not require the user to do any manual settings to take backups.

Author: I think we can also say `managed Kubernetes cluster` like GKE, Gardener, etc.

However, volumes are typically not a part of these backups. That's why Kyma encourages users to take periodic backups of their volumes. This can be done using the Kubernetes API `VolumeSnapshot` that is explained below.

## On-Demand Volume Snapshots

Kubernetes provides an API resource called VolumeSnapshot that can be used to take the snapshot of a volume on Kubernetes. A snapshot can be used either to provision a new volume (pre-populated with the snapshot data) or to restore the existing volume to a previous state (represented by the snapshot).

VolumeSnapshot support is only available for [CSI drivers](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/). However, not all the CSI drivers support the volume snapshot functionality. You can find a list of all the drivers with the supported functionalities [here](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/drivers.html).

> As an example, assume that you have a PVC `pvc-to-backup` which was created using a CSI-enabled StorageClass. Now you want to take a snapshot. You can trigger a snapshot by creating a VolumeSnapshot object like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, assume that you have a `pvc-to-backup` PVC which you have created using a CSI-enabled StorageClass. You can trigger a snapshot by creating a VolumeSnapshot object like the following:
```

> > **NOTE:** The PVC to be backed up must be created using CSI-enabled Storage Class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** You must use CSI-enabled StorageClass to create a PVC, otherwise it won't be backed up.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: VolumeSnapshot
metadata:
  name: volume-snapshot
spec:
  volumeSnapshotClassName: csi-snapshot-class
  source:
    persistentVolumeClaimName: pvc-to-backup
```

> Now assume your PVC is corrupt, and you want to re-create it using the snapshot. Then, you can create it by using the snapshot you created before as the data source for the new PVC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now assume your PVC is corrupt, and you want to re-create it using the snapshot. Create it by using the snapshot you created before as the data source for the new PVC:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: pvc-restored
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: csi-storage-class
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 10Gi
  dataSource:
    name: volume-snapshot
    kind: VolumeSnapshot
    apiGroup: snapshot.storage.k8s.io
```

> This will create a new PVC `pvc-restored` with pre-populated data from the snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a new `pvc-restored` PVC with pre-populated data from the snapshot.
```

> You can find more information about VolumeSnapshots [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-snapshots/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details about VolumeSnapshots, see [this](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-snapshots/) document.
```

> Currently none of the cloud providers support this API out-of-the-box yet. You must follow the instructions below to enable this feature for various providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, none of the cloud providers support this API out of the box. Follow the instructions below to enable this feature for various providers.
```

### AKS

Minimum Kubernetes version supported is 1.17.

> Install CSI driver following [this documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/install-csi-driver-master.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install CSI driver following [this documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/install-csi-driver-master.md).
```

> Then, you can follow [this example](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/tree/master/deploy/example/snapshot) to see how you can create a VolumeSnapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Follow [this example](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/tree/master/deploy/example/snapshot) to see how you can create a VolumeSnapshot.
```

### GKE

Minimum Kubernetes version supported is 1.14.

> Enable the required feature gate on the cluster following [this document](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/gce-pd-csi-driver#enabling_on_a_new_cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enable the required feature gate on the cluster following [this](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/gce-pd-csi-driver#enabling_on_a_new_cluster) document.
```

> Install CSI driver following the instructions [here](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gcp-compute-persistent-disk-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/kubernetes/user-guides/snapshots.md#kubernetes-snapshots-user-guide-alpha).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install the CSI driver using [these](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gcp-compute-persistent-disk-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/kubernetes/user-guides/snapshots.md#kubernetes-snapshots-user-guide-alpha) instructions.
```

> Then, you can follow [this example](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gcp-compute-persistent-disk-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/kubernetes/user-guides/snapshots.md#snapshot-example) to see how you can create a VolumeSnapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Follow [this example](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gcp-compute-persistent-disk-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/kubernetes/user-guides/snapshots.md#snapshot-example) to see how you can create a VolumeSnapshot.
```

> ### Gardener Azure

Reviewer 2: Let's have a general Gardener section explaining how to do it on Gardener (as for gcp and aws it is already available). Then have a note for Azure which we just need to remove later
